Document: SRS for Employee Manangement System

Title: Employee Mangement System

Overview:
In this world of growing technologies everything has been computerized. With large number of work opportunities the human workforce has increased.
Thus there is a need of system which can handle the data of such a large number of employees in an organization, This project simplifies the task 
of maintain records because of its user fiendly nature. The 'EMPLOYEE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM' has been developed to override the problem prevailing 
in the practicing manual system. This software is supported to eliminate an din some cases reduce hardships faced by exixting system.


Objective:
The objective of this web-based application is to Enable HRs' to build, maintain and manage their company's Employee database,
Aid in the process of maintaing and managing Project Allocations and managing deadlines of projects. 
Enable employees to apply for leave with thier managers and for managers to approve those leaves.


Scope:
As this system allows HRs' and Managers to maintin the sensitive database of Employees and Projects
the scope of the access for this application is within the Company's Domain. 
Any anonymous User can not view, or edit this data without proper Authorization.

Definitions:

Requirements:

Functional Requirements:
1.Authentication:
		Login- The user can login to the EMS with their username and password.
		Logout- The user can log out from the EMS system.
		Login failure- If the user does not exist in the database or the user has not been authorized by the EMS then system will show login failure.
		Forgot Password: 
2.Authorization:
		After logging in, the user role will be checked from the database and the user interface will be displayed according to their role.
		Manager's and HR's will have different authorization levels as compared to regular employees.

3.Display Data:
		Employees can view their personal information. 
		Managers can see users personnel information of all employees as well as employee’s information who are under their department.
		HR can display their personnel information and all employee's information.

4.CRUD on Employee Details:
		CRUD Operation can be performed on the Employee's data with varying levels of access authorization based on the job profiles.
		HR's will be able to Hire Employees and Updated Employee's Data
		Managers can modify the team assigned to a Project
		Employees can update their personal details

5. Leave Application and Approvals:
		Employees will be able to apply for leave with their respective Project Managers and Managers will be able approve or reject thier leave request.

6. Project/Task Management:
		Manager can assign and remove Employees from projects.
		Managers will be able to assign day-to-day tasks to the employees working on a project with specific deadlines.


Non-Functional Requirements:
1. Security:
		Any anonymus user will not be able to view or access data of the EMS.
		Registered Employees will be able to access profiles of other employees in the organization however they can only update or edit their Personal details.
		Registered Employees and Managers of a project will be able to monitor the progress of that project. 
		System will block the anonymus user as we use the firewall in the server to protect the application from cyber attacks.
		Sensitive data will be always encrypted across communication.

2. Reliable:
		The system will have backup of the employee data on regular basis and recover this data in short 
		time duration to keep the system operational.
		During peak hours system will maintain same user experience by managing and load balancing.


3. Avaliblity:
		uptime:  24 * 7 available

4. Portability:
		User will be able to access EMS portal on various devices at the same time.
		System can be deployed to single server, multi server, to any OS, Cloud (Azure or AWS or GCP).

5. Maintainablity:
		A Commercial database software will be used to maintain System data Persistence.
		A readymade Web Server will be installed to host online Web Site with server management capabilities.
		IT operations team will easily monitor and configure System using Administrative tools provided by Servers.
		Separate enviornment will be maintained for system isolation in  production, testing, and development.

6. Efficiency: 
		On festival season, maximum number of leaves will be placed. The system will be able to efficiently 
		handle all the requests and present them to respective managers for approvals.


		
